For this brief exercise at the end of
chapter three,
I'm going to demonstrate some variations
on printing Hello World.
So let's open a new program and we'll call
it chap3ex1.py.
So we'll start with the standard hello
world, let's save and run that.
So there's hello world, just like we saw
in the lessons.
If we try to split it up into two parts,
in two print statements, like so.
Watch what happens.
So, hello goes on one line, and world goes
on the next line.
That's because by default print prints a
new line after it prints its argument.
So, what we can do if we want this to be
on
the same line, we can use a second
argument end equals " ".
That will say don't end with a new line,
end with a empty string.
Now watch what we get.
So we can put hello world into two print
functions, but to get it to be
on the same line, we have to add a second
argument to the first print statement.
End equals empty string to have it print
on the same line.
So let's look at one or two other things
real quick.
Like I said this was going to be a short
exercise.
What if we want a large gap like a tab.
Well, we can enter a tab into our string.
Or what also works are special characters
such as for the tab, \t.
So
watch what happens here.
Notice it printed it over a tab.
\t is the special character that
represents a tab.
You can place it into the string as is, or
optionally, we can use concatenation.
Now watch how this prints, be the same
result.
I'll save.
Back to the command prompt window.
Okay, same result.
But, because it is a lot easier, it's
easier
just to put the \t into the string like
that.
There's also a new line character, \n,
watch
what it does.
It automatically causes a character return
line feed.
And whatever follows the \n will be
printed on the next line.
So those are just a few variations in the
print function that we can work with.
We'll be looking at other examples of
modifying the print function later in the
course.
For example, we'll be looking at format
strings
as a way to better place our output.
Although, and I say this in all the
courses that I teach
on programming also, I'm not very
interested in how the output looks.
Or, I'm not as interested as in the output
looks
as I am in getting the correct output to
start with.
So, I won't emphasis fancy printing
techniques, like how to
set things up in columns in this course
because your primary
focus is learning how to compute using
Python and I'm much
more interested in the output being
correct, than it looked good.
But with that, we're finished with this
exercise, and that wraps up this chapter.